#summary CardReadWriteOptions: options for card referencing and I/O

<wiki:toc maxLevel="2"/>

= Introduction =

Each card is an independently-addressable web resource, and may be referenced from one or more workspaces using an absolute or relative URI reference.  A number of options need to be considered when saving a workspace.

I have adopted the idea that relatively referenced cards should be saved with the workspace; i.e. copied when a new workspace is created. Absolutely-referenced cards should be referenced in-situ, so that changes to the original can propagate to the workspace.

Also, card data may be read from what is effectively read-only storage (e.g. by file: URI references, which are not generally writable from the browser).  In due course, I propose to implement a backend plug-in framework that can deal appropriately with read-only and read-write card storage.

= Feature matrix for saving card data =

This matrix captures the various options that must be allowed, and how various operations are performed.  '-' means don't care, or no operation is required; combinations marked 'X' should not occur.

|||||| || |||||| *Card operation by card status* ||                           
|| *Workspace operation* || *card rel/abs* || *source RW/RO* || || *New* || *Changed* || *Unchanged* ||
|| Create new || rel  || -     || || Create || Create  || Create ||
|| Save             || rel   || -    || || Create || Update || -          ||
|| Create new || abs || RW || || X          || Update || -          ||
|| Save             || abs || RW || || X          || Update || -          ||
|| Create new || abs || RO || || X          || X            || -          ||
|| Save             || abs || RO || || X          || X            || -          ||

This design assumes that new cards are created with a URI reference relative to the containing workspace.

Currently, there is no option in this design to save a copy of a card loaded from an absolute URI reference from read-only source.

= Card parameter interactions with I/O operations =

Table entries show the state of each parameter following the indicated operation.  "-" indicates no change. 

|| *Operation*      || *rel/abs* || *shuffl:dataref* || *shuffl:datauri* || *shuffl:datamod* || *shuffl:dataRW* ||
|| Drop new card || rel             || Construct from card Id || undefined || true             || true ||
|| Read card         || -               || ref                       || As used for GET    || false            || (per source) ||
|| Save new card  || rel             || POST response || POST response      || false            || true ||
|| Update card     || -                || -                         || -                              || false            || -     ||
|| Edit card           || -               || -                          || -                              || true             || -     ||

New cards are distinguished by an undefined *shuffl:datauri* value.

Relative/absolute state is determined by examination of the *shuffl:dataref* value.

Card editing operations are not enabled for cards loaded from a read-only source. Use *Save new...* to create an editable copy if relatively referenced.