#summary 20090904-usecase-Ross

= Simul use scenario =

Simul is creating a registry of (JISC?) open-source projects to help uncover potential collaborations '(my words - is this right? #g)'

'I couldn't find a URI for simul - #g'

== Outline use-case ==

Consider a new project that proposes to do something with RDF.

 * Go to project registry
 * Ask for all projects related to 'RDF'
 * Get list back - click button, get Shuffl desktop with cards
 * Play around - group them, e.g. 'yes', 'maybe', 'no' piles. 
 * Get rid of all 'no' cards.  
 * For all remaining cards, tell me all the people involved.

Now we have a list of possibly-related projects and people.

 * Create new DOAP file for the new project:  use new Shuffl card for this
 * Link the new card to the collection of cards already selected.

We have now captured a list of  all projects and people potentially related to this new project.

== Additional requirements ==

One requirement is remote simultaneous editing of cards (something that I am currently considering for a future project).

Ross is using wookie widgets with jQuery.  It may be that Wookie widgets can provide an easy route to real-time simultaneous updates for shuffl displays.  It's not clear rigjht now whetherb this would be done best at the workspace or card level.

Ross suggests: sign up to wookie widgets list and point folks to shuffl demo and ask what it would take to make it a wookie widget.

== Links ==

 * http://getwookie.org/Welcome.html
    * http://getwookie.org/About.html
    * http://code.google.com/apis/wave/extensions/gadgets/guide.html
 * http://blogs.cetis.ac.uk/david/2008/08/18/widgets-for-wookie-getting-started/
    * http://www.tencompetence.org/ldruntime/
 * http://incubator.apache.org/wookie/