#summary Shuffl work-in-progress demonstration

= Introduction =

The current shuffl work-in-progress test/demonstration application can be run directly from t6he Google code subversion repository.

This is far from being a final, but rather shows where I am on the path to where I'd like to be.  I'll update this page from time to time, as development proceeds.  It is quite possible that this demonstration will occasionally be completely broken.

= Instructions =

 # Browse to http://shuffl.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/static/demo/shuffl-demo.xhtml (tested using safari or firefox.  Internet Exploder probably doesn't work.)
 # The initial page shows a Shuffl card with instructions for running the Shuffl demonstration shown in the screencast.
 # Drag a card "Plot" onto the workspace.  An empty graph display is shown.
 # You may wish to make the card larger - drag the lower-right-hand corner or lower- and right-edges to resize.
 # Drag a card labeled "Table" onto the workspace
 # Drag another card labelled "Table" onto the workspace
 # In one of the "Table" cards, double-click in the top-left text field (where it says "double-click to edit"), and enter "data/test-graph1.csv" into the text field and click OK.  A table of data values is displayed (x, sin x, cos x ...).
 # In the other "Table" card, enter "data/test-graph2.csv".  A different table of values is displayed.
 # Drag and drop one card with data values over the graph card.  Graphs are displayed.
 # Drag and drop the other data table card over the graph card.  Different graphs are displayed.
 # Repeat until bored.