#summary Sprint 3 plan : 31 Aug - 17 Sep

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Introduction =

This sprint should mark an acceleration of Shuffl development, with an increase to 80% developer effort allocated to the project.

Due to getting bogged down with !AtomPub and data persistence in the [SprintPlan_2 previous sprint], the project is running a little behind schedule.

== Current milestone ==

|| Month || Activity || Deliverables || 
|| 3: 2Oct 18days || Enhancements to system; capturing structure in data; basic user authentication and access control. Use of system for project tasks. Seminar/demonstrations to solicit users and feedback. || Updated system. Examples of system in use. Updated feature list. ||

== Current sprint ==

|| Sprint 3 || 31 Aug - 17 Sep || 8 working days ||

(Probably 2 more days effort in practice, from odd weekends, working during travel to meetings, etc. )

= User stories and activities =

|| *Activity number* || *Description* || *Effort est* || *Effort actual* || *Target date* || *Completion date* ||
|| 1.   || *Project mananement* || *1.5* || *0.0* ||
|| 1.1. || Sprint 3 plan             || 0.25 || -- || 31-Aug-2009 || 05-Sep-2009 ||
|| 1.2. || Sprint 3 review (retrospective)  || 0.25 || -- || 17-Sep-2009 || -- ||
|| 1.3. || Sustainability plan   || 0.25   || -- ||  ?? || (ongoing) ||
|| 1.4. || Miscellaneous admin, etc  || 0.75 || -- || -- || -- ||
|| 2.   || *Community engagement and dissemination* || *5.0* || *0.0* ||
|| 2.1  || Meeting with CH (Zoology silk group)  || 0.5 || -- || (sprint) || (incomplete) ||
|| 2.2  || Introductory user documentation || 0.5 || -- || 28-Aug-2009 || -- ||   
|| 2.3  || JISCRI meeting || 2.0 || 2.0 || 04-Sep-2009 || 04-Sep-2009 ||
|| 2.3  || !VoCamp Bristol || 2.0 || --  || 11-Sep-2009 || -- ||
|| 3.   || *Technical development* || *6.0* || *0.0* ||
|| 3.1  || Refactoring and test cases; esp. to support persistence  || 3.0 || -- || 09-Sep-2009 || -- ||
|| 3.2  || Initial content persistence  || 3.0 || 3.8 || 11-Sep-2009 || -- ||

= Task breakdowns =

(effort estimates in days to nearest 0.25)

== 3.1: Refactoring and test cases ==

3.0 days:

 * (0.5) identify functional areas
 * (1.5)  Create test cases for key methods in main functional areas
 * (1.0)  Refactor code and ensure all test cases pass

== 3.2: Initial content persistence ==

3.0 days:

 * (1.0) complete static save of new workspace (*Save as...*)
 * (0.5) implement resave of workspace (*Save*)
 * (1.0) implement on-the-fly saving of changes to card content, layout, etc
 * (0.5) save card size as well as position

= Sprint review notes =

 * TBD

== End-of-sprint review ==

 * TBD

= Activity summary =

01-Sep-2009:
 * (0.2) Save/display workspace location when loading
 * (0.8) Continue work on saving workspace to AtomPub server. Ran into some problems of AtomPub naming, edit URIs and duplicate naming. Resolution adopted and work continues.

02-Sep-2009:
 * (0.5) email catch-up
 * (0.2) meeting with Chris Holland
 * (0.3) restructuring code and starting on test cases for card handling

03-Sep-2009:
 * (0.2) continue work on card handling test cases
 * (0.8) JISCRI meeting

04-Sep-2009:
 * (0.8) JISCRI meeting
 * (0.2) discuss new use-case with Ross Gardler

05-Sep-2009 (unscheduled):
 * (0.1) revise pitch from JISCRI and publish on project home page.  Also add link to runnable demo in SVN.
 * (0.2) write up notes of Ross Gardler's use-case
 * (0.2) prepare sprint 3 plan